----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee A -- LG16705/Hattawy
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The manuscript "First Exclusive Measurement of Deeply Virtual Compton
Scattering off 4He: Toward the 3D Tomography of Nuclei" presents first
beam-spin asymmetry data of the exclusive scattering process off a
pressurized 4-He gas target with the CLAS spectrometer at CEBAF.
Deeply virtual Compton scattering (DVCS) is considered to be the
cleanest probe for generalized parton distributions (GPDs) and has
been applied to the proton in a number of experiments at HERA, CERN,
and CEBAF, resulting in a three-dimensional image of the proton in
terms of quarks and gluons. It is very interesting to apply this
method to nuclei. A study of the 3D structure of nuclei is very
interesting and important as a new approach to study modifications of
the nucleon GPDs in the nuclear medium. A first step in this direction
is done in the present paper for the spin-0 nucleus 4-He, which is
described by a single GPD and therefore simplifies the interpretation.

While there are previous data from the HERMES experiment with the
detection of the scattered electron and the real photon only in the
final state, the present CLAS experiment ensures the exclusivity of
the measurement by additional detection of the recoil nucleus in a
radial time projection chamber. This is an important improvement. The
performance of this chamber is convincingly demonstrated in the
calibration experiment [ref. 43] quoted in the manuscript. From the
azimuthal dependence of the beam-spin asymmetry the real and imaginary
parts of the 4-He Compton form factor were determined in a
model-independent way. The data are in good agreement with the
existing models.

I have the following minor remarks, questions, or suggestions:

1) page 4: As main background contributions accidental coincidences
and coherent pi-0 production are discussed and quantified. For the
Bethe-Heitler (BH) process, it is stated, that "the cross section for
real photon electroproduction is dominated by BH, while the DVCS
contribution is very small. However, the DVCS contribution is enhanced
in the observables sensitive to the interference term, e.g. A_lu."
Here, it would be highly desirable to have some quantitative
information on the relative size of the DVCS contribution.

Answer: We have updated the statement, highlighting better the 
problematic. To more explicitly answer the question, depending on 
phi the BH can be up to ~6 times larger or of similar size, and is
a factor of two if integrated over phi.


2) page 5 (2. col. 2. paragraph: VGG model (explain or give reference
[53] in the text also, it is given in the caption of Fig. 6).

Answer: Done.


3) page 5 (2. col. middle): is is --> is

Answer: Sorry for this, it is corrected.


4) page 6: Fig. 5: why is the theoretical curve not shown in the left
plot as a function of Q²? In the right plot only one curve is shown.
Therefore, I suggest for the caption to say "and the curve is the
theoretical calculation ..."

Answer: The model in question does not contain any Q2 dependence by 
construction. It would be therefore misleading to provide a straight 
line as a prediction of the model, since it is an hypothesis used in 
the model from the start. In general, we can only provide what the 
model authors have provided to us. This is the reason, some other
curves are missing.


The paper is well structured, very clearly written and contains an
introduction to the physics issues which also addresses a
non-specialist reader. The figures are well chosen and adequately
presented. After the points mentioned above have been addressed, I
recommend to publish this paper in Physical Review Letters.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of Referee B -- LG16705/Hattawy
----------------------------------------------------------------------

This manuscript deals with the measurement of beam spin asymmetry at JLab in the exclusive process of
coherent deeply virtual Compton scattering (DVCS) off 4He (electron + 4He -> electron + photon + 4He). DVCS
has been identified as a very promising tool to determine the Generalized Parton Distributions (GPD), one of
the most modern and complete description of the hadron structure. Since more than 10 years the majority of
DVCS measurements have been focused on the nucleon to provide information on its 3D structure. Only one
publication is dedicated to measurements off nuclei (ranging from 4He to 14N, 20Ne, 85Kr and 131Xe). This
experiment was achieved at HERMES (A. Airapetian et al. PRC81, 46 (2010)).
While in the HERMES measurements using 27 GeV positrons only scattered lepton and photon are detected, in
the JLab measurement using 6 GeV electrons all the outgoing particles including the low-energy recoiling 4He
are detected to ensure the best exclusivity. Electron and photon are detected in the standard CLAS
spectrometer completed by an inner calorimeter. A new and small TPC surrounding the target has been built to
collect the low-energy 4He particle. There is no doubt that this experiment demonstrates the feasibility of
measurement of coherent DVCS off nuclei. However if it is easy to extract the quantities ImHA and ReHA for a
spinless nucleus what is the impact on the 4He structure? The results are more or less in agreement with the
different present models. Is it possible to strengthen the conclusions or interpretations to deserve a publication
in PRL?

Answer: The statistical error bars of this measurement 


The text is rather well written but I have a few questions:
- why is the Deltaphi distribution not symmetric (Fig. 2 top left)? What is the systematic effect on the azimuthal
distributions from which the important quantities ImHA and ReHA are extracted?

Answer: The asymmetry can come from various sources. The magnetic field shifts the phi of particles depending 
on their mass and momentum. Uncertainties in the momentum reconstruction and magnetic field strength have the biggest
effect on this observable. The offset is 0.17 degrees which we believe to be negligible effect in regard to our 20 
degrees bins and will not affect the extraction of the CFF with any significance. 


- the phi distributions (Fig. 4) present different sizes of statistical error bars. Is it due to the transition from the
inner calorimeter to the calorimeter at larger angles? Is there an impact of this discontinuity on the 2 extracted
quantities?

Answer: DVCS events presented here are only measured in the inner calorimeter, the CLAS calorimeter is only used to
reconstruct pi0 for their subtraction from our sample. The variation of the error bars are mostly due to the physics
(since the cross section varies strongly with phi) and to acceptance issues. Indeed, because of the disposition of the 
detectors, some specific kinematics happen to be more difficult to measure with our setup and lead to larger error bars.


- the formula ALU(phi) is only valid at leading order and leading twist and only for quarks (ignoring the gluon
transversity). This should be stated.

Answer: This is now stated right before the equation 5, where we give the expression of ALU.


- can the authors give the formula of the 4 coefficients alpha i(phi) to ease the reader? They are the basis of the
determination of the 2 important quantities.

Answer: This is an article length issue, providing these equations would take some place and would introduce new
kinematical variables to be expressed as well. We leave it to the editor to indicate if we have room for these.


- the experiment allows mainly only a determination of ImHA and not really of ReHA. To improve the situation
you need either a good determination of the absolute cross section for single photon production or of the
charge asymmetry. This could be also pointed for future experiments.

Answer: It is true that based on eq 5, ALU is more sensitive to the imaginary part than the real part of HA.
However, it is unclear to us that cross section measurements or charge asymmetry would lead to better results, specific
studies taking into account realistic future experimental error bars would need to be performed to make such 
a claim.


- can you comment about the size of the twist-three contributions which are evaluated in the Ref 49 for
different kinematics (“Refined analysis of photon leptoproduction off spinless target” from Belitsky and
Mueller, PRD79, 014017 (2009))?

Answer: These twist three contributions would show up in different ways, either in the cross section or 
in the asymmetries through higher cos or sin moments of phi. The precision of this experiment is not at the 
level to be sensitive to such contributions. 

- suggestions for improvement of notations:
-- can you give a small space in the expression e4He->e’4He or in similar expressions in the text?

Answer: Done.


-- 4He and 4He’ are used in the final state, can you unify the notation?

Answer: Done.


- Improvement of the References:
-- you give a rather exhaustive list of DVCS publications but the first H1 DVCS result is not quoted:
H1, C. Adloff et al., Phys. Lett. B517, 47 (2001), hep-ex/0107005.

Answer: Done.


-- Ref 43: Dupré (e with accent)

Answer: Done.
